PRECIOUS GIVA ENTERPRISE
Ghana is a country blessed and naturally endowed with amazing natural resources and in
agriculture, we have a plus, in that we have fertile lands and our plain oil farm produce is good but to
get going in terms of global demands today, we have to up our game and not settle for what our regular
oil farm produce. Which is one of the reasons PRECIOUS GIVA ENTERPRISE is taking advantage
of oil farm products.
Oil farms can be categorized into 2 major divisions; Animal fat and Plant fat. Both has their benefits,
as animal fat can be used mostly for soap making, grease, and lubricants. While plant fats are mostly
used for cooking, skincare products, drying oil for thickening and shining surface. But mostly, we
focus solely on cooking oil because of it relative demands. Whilst giving little or no interest to other
products that can be fetched from the vegetable oil. Also, vegetable oil for cooking itself can be further
into different categorize such as frying, baking, searing, marinating and seasoning.
Precious Giva Enterprise goes into research on the truth of these oil products, and their promised health
benefits attached in all. If not our health, why else should anyone be concerned at the very least.
Because of many promised benefits, consumer buys these products blinded of the truth about the
products. A given example is for oil to be healthy is that it should either be monounsaturated or
polyunsaturated, containing Omega 3, 6 and 9 acid. Few plants meets the validation and oil fetched
are mostly saturated with exceptions of sunflower, safflower, olive and a few.
The bitter truth is that in Africa, we grow fewer of the plants that are very highly unsaturated. But then
we have a particular advantage in that though, when it come to cooking oil, in particular; coconut oil,
though saturated contains medium chain triglycerides if cold pressed and done properly to retain its
nutrients. Diversifying from cooking oil, we can still see coconut oil still been relevant in other uses
such as skincare product, soup making among others. To note, in particular with skincare and hair
growth, castor seed does the job better. But this is not to say that coconut oil can’t achieve same
purpose.
Coconuts are highly known for their versatile use from being a palm tree to its fruits. Coconuts are
harvested and what is considered waste could be used to make ropes, and charcoal. While the fruits can
be eaten as edible fruit. To further more, we use it for oil and this is what catches PRECIOUS GIVA
ENTERPRISE, the oil from coconuts has many uses and benefits usually tagged virgin oil, still
saturated but retaining it nutrients. Virgin oil is a good product of coconut meat extract, but highly
expensive. To close this gap and have coconut oil in our various home at a very affordable rate.
Precious Giva Enterprise developed a technique with easy process to make this happen, whilst having
the regular benefits of the virgin coconut oil.
Precious Giva Enterprise Goals:
Transforming and maintaining the best standard of vegetable oil products.
Retention of nutrient in vegetable oil, no matter its procedural process.
Diversification of plant fat into soap making, perfume, drying oil and more.
Making healthy vegetable oil, because our health is our primary concern.
Job creation.
Market Research:Coconut has a special bond with we Ghanaian, been that we are accustomed to it by tradition and have
it in our every day diet. And with a market test by distributing 100 boxes of 15 bottles of 1 liters. The
market response was very good and encourages a large scale of production and a big profit margin.
This is because the raw material is readily available at cheap cost. To go industrial scale might
introduce some marginal cost but still profit margin will continue to grow gradually.
